---
title: Insert title here
key: f2869509dc28d84aa5318e71b6a4e82b

---
## Constants and Variables

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "386963f1b9"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Isaiah Hull
title: Economist


`@script`
In our first lesson, we will briefly introduce tensorflow and then discuss its two basic objects of computation: constants and variables.


---
## What is TensorFlow?

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "0e10c0ca80"
```

`@part1`
* Open-source library for graph-based numerical computation {{1}}
  * Developed by Google Brain Team {{2}}
  * Intended for use in deep learning {{3}}
* Popular for machine learning applications {{4}}
  * Data science site surveys {{5}}
  * Deep learning academic literature {{6}} 
* Low and high level APIs {{7}}
  * Addition, multiplication, differentiation {{8}}
  * Deep learning with Keras {{9}}


`@script`
TensorFlow is an open-source library for graph-based numerical computation. It was developed by the Google Brain Team and was intended for use in machine learning and deep learning in particular.

Since its release to the public in 2015, TensorFlow has become popular for machine learning applications. It often ranks first in data science website surveys and is frequently used in the computer science literature.

TensorFlow has both high and low level APIs. You can use TensorFlow to perform addition, multiplication, and differentiation. You can also use it to perform deep learning with neural networks in Keras.


---
## Defining Tensors in Tensorflow

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "93585c4823"
```

`@part1`
```python
import tensorflow as tf

# 0D Tensor
d0 = tf.ones((1,))

# 1D Tensor
d1 = tf.ones((2,))

# 2D Tensor
d2 = tf.ones((2,2))

# 3D Tensor
d3 = tf.ones((2,2,2))

# Use default session.
tf.InteractiveSession()

# Tensorflow requires explicit evaluation.
print d3.eval()
```


`@script`
The basic unit of computation in TensorFlow is the tensor, so let's define some tensors. We will start by importing tensorflow as tf. We will then define 0-, 1-, 2-, and 3-dimensional tensors. Note that a 0-dimensional tensor is a scalar, a 1-dimensional tensor is a vector, a 2-dimensional vector is a matrix, and a 3-dimensional tensor can be interpreted as an array of matrices.

Importantly, TensorFlow differs from other computational Python packages, as Numpy, in that it requires you to perform computation in the context of a session. The simplest way to do this is to use the InteractiveSession method. TensorFlow also requires explicit evaluation. As you can see at the bottom of the code block, we have used the eval method to print the 3-dimensional tensor.


---
## Constants (1)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "66e9bdfe13"
```

`@part1`
* A constant is the simplest category of tensor {{1}}
  * Does not change during computation time {{2}}
  * Can have any dimension {{3}}


```python
import tensorflow as tf

# Define a 2x3 constant.
a = tf.constant(3, tf.float32, shape=[2,3], name="a")

# Define a 2x2 constant.
b = tf.constant([1., 2., 3., 4.], shape=[2,2])
``` {{4}}


`@script`
We next move on to constants, which are the simplest category of tensor in TensorFlow. A constant does not change during computation time. It can also have any dimension.

In the code block, we've defined two constants. The first is a 2x3 tensor 3s. The second is a 2x2 tensor, which is constructed by reshaping the 1-dimensional vector: 1, 2, 3, 4.

Note that setting the data type and name, as we did in tensor a, was optional. The default datatype is a 32-bit float.


---
## Constants (2)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "bda74d2be1"
```

`@part1`
| Constant Types       | Example          | 
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| `tf.constant()` | `tf.constant([1., 2., 3.])` |
| `tf.zeros()`      | `tf.zeros([2,2])` | 
| `tf.zeros_like()`      | `tf.zeros_like(input_tensor)`      | 
| `tf.ones()` | `tf.ones([2,2])`      |
| `tf.ones_like()` | `tf.ones_like(input_tensor)` |
| `tf.fill()` | `tf.fill([3,3], 7.)` |


`@script`
In the previous slide, we worked exclusively with the constant method, which is sufficient to define all constants. However, in some case, there are more convenient options for defining certain types of special tensors. In the table, these methods are given. You can use the zeros or ones method to generate a tensor of arbitrary dimension that is populated entirely with zeros or ones. You can use the zeros_like or ones_like methods to populate tensors with zeros and ones, copying the dimension of some input tensor. Finally, you can use the fill method to populate a tensor of arbitrary dimension with the same scalar value in each element.


---
## Variables (1)

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "74208d6dd1"
```

`@part1`
* A variable can be modified after graph computation time {{1}}
  * Shared, persistent, and modifiable {{2}}

* All variables must be initialized in low level APIs  {{3}}
  * Performed in context of a session {{4}}
  * Done with `tf.initialize_all_variables()` {{5}}
  * Not true for high level APIs like Keras {{6}}


`@script`
Unlike a constant, a variable's value can change during computation. Variables are shared, persistent, and modifiable. Furthermore, all variables must be initialized in low level APIs. That should be done in the context of a session, as we'll show on the next slide, using the initialize_all_variables method. Note that this is not necessary for high level APIs like Keras.


---
## Variables (2)

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "0974112694"
```

`@part1`
```python
import tensorflow as tf

# Define a variable.
a = tf.Variable([1,2,3,4,5,6])

# Define a constant.
b = tf.constant(2)

# Compute their product.
c = a*b

# Initialize variables and perform computation.
with tf.Session() as sess:
	sess.run(tf.initialize_all_variables())
	print(sess.run(c))
```


`@script`
We'll now take a look at how variables are constructed and used in TensorFlow. In the code, we first define a variable, a, which is a 1-dimensional tensor with 6 elements. We then define a constant, b, and define c as their product. Finally, we create a session in which we initialize the variables, compute c, and print it to the console.


---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "0bf50c1254"
```

`@script`
Now that you understand constants and variables, let's put what you've learned to work in some exercises.

